https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/pitfalls-new-developers-sunny-mishra/

0 notifications total

Skip to search

Skip to main content

Close jump menu
LinkedIn
Search

Primary Navigation
Home
My Network
Jobs
Messaging
20
20 new 20 new notifications. notificationsNotifications
Adi BhatMe 
Work 
Post a Job
Photo by Mimi Thian on Unsplash
Photo by Mimi Thian on Unsplash
Pitfalls for new Developers!
Published on March 30, 2020
Sunny MishraStatus is reachable
Sunny Mishra
Senior Developer | Storyteller
2 articles 
Following
In the last few years while doing the code review of junior developers I have noticed several recurring programming pitfalls. Goes on to say, if unchecked such sub-par coding will lead to buggy production releases and also cause Performance SLA breaches. In this post, I will be sharing these points which may help junior developers to put them to use in their own code.

Reflecting on the past few years of my own coding experience, I have been lucky to get a few bugs in my code. I always thought I was lucky as I didn’t do anything special in my code. But recently I scoured through the internet and found a couple of programming best practices. I realized unknowingly I had been following these practices all along.

So here’s the list. Also, I have tried to reword some points so they sound funny and make it a less boring list to consume:

• Between Code-Optimization & Code-Readability, choose Code Readability. Always.

• Kids write huge monolithic function. Legends keep it simple: One method – one task.

• Modular code is our mantra. We always write Modular code. Wait, what is “Modular code” again?

• Writing Single line fancy code is cool. But then, verbose code gets fewer bugs in production.

• Avoid Fancy code 101: Choose Switch-case instead of Ternary operator or huge single line if block.

• Avoid Fancy code 101: Always use Curly braces {} around if-else, switch-case and for loops

• I promise to maintain my written Code for the next 10 years. So I will not write Comments in my code. Would you promise the same?

• I have the sharpest Memory in my entire team. I remember all my code. So I will not write Comments in my code. What about you?

• Loosely coupled code, Modular code & Refactored code are the same thing. Google them today.

• Your b.ful Code has the right to get reviewed. Remember your rights. Ask for code review and feedback every time.

• Move repetitive code into a generic utility function. At least try once, you will thank me later.

• Write a sufficient amount of debug logs in your code. Remember overconfidence killed the cat.

• Feel proud if you could write 5 Unit test cases for just 1 new Function you wrote.

• Unit-test and Code-coverage are different things. Google “Code coverage” today.

• Global variables are your enemy. Avoid them in your code, if you can.

• Integration testing and Unit-testing are not the same. What are you testing?

• ‘My test-case is my test-case, none of your test-case’ :) Well, all I am sayin’ is: Don’t share your test-cases with your Tester teammate.

• Add documentation for each function you write. You will forget in 6 months what your own Function does.

• Adopt Functional programming constructs like Map, reduce, Filters in your code. Declarative code is fun to write and more readable.

• Immutable variables have saved many lives. Try final or const(whichever keyword your Language supports) variables today in your code.

• NullPointer exception misses you a lot. Let it miss you more, use the Null check in your code.

• Does your function have dozens of if-else blocks? Smells like data handling in the name of business logic. Move data out of the code into separate file eg. .json/.yaml/.xml

• It is tempting to catch the Parent/Generic exception, isn’t it? It’s sinful, don’t do that, catch and handle the particular exception.

• Did you forget to Close the Resources your Code consumed, such as IO connection, DB connection?

• Always let your Function Handle the Exception, don’t wait for your calling/parent function to handle it. Don’t be lazy.

• Updating a List/Map while iterating over it is Bad programming. Use the functional programming constructs of Map-Reduce instead.

• 80% of the time you are working on someone else’s legacy code. Respect others, Write a simpler readable code.

• Cover edge cases in your code. Don’t wait for the tester to find them and log a bug in your name

• Write functions that work on Immutable variables. You will thank me later in a Multithreaded environment.

• Don’t write code logic in the Exception Catch block. High-schoolers do that. Wait, are you a high-schooler?

• Design patterns are god-sent tools. Google and use them in your code today

Happy coding fellas!! -Sunny



This article was originally published on my blog here.





Report this
Published by
Sunny MishraStatus is reachable
Sunny Mishra
Senior Developer | Storyteller
Published • 6mo
2 articles

Following
Few pitfalls that I notice regularly during junior developer's code review. Thought of sharing in a funny reworded manner here so it helps other developers write better code.

#programminglife 

LIKE
Like

Comment

Share
LIKE  INTEREST 58
2 Comments
Reactions
Adi BhatLIKESureka RajaLIKEHemanth RavulaLIKEPoojana VINTERESTkshitij kallaLIKEKumar Gaurav PandeyLIKEAditya ShuklaLIKENandini TayalLIKERahul RadhakrishnanLIKEKamalakannan RavichandranLIKE+46
2 CommentsComments on Sunny Mishra’s article

Most Relevant
Adi Bhat



See profile for Kat R.
Kat R.
2nd degree connection 2nd
Software Engineer | Java Developer
6mo
You can use ternary for simple assignments. I do it  if it only uses 1 uncomplicated condition for each decision branch. 🙂



Like
LIKE 2

Reply
See profile for Navkant Tyagi
Navkant Tyagi
2nd degree connection 2nd
Software Developer at ParallelDots
6mo
Some really good points and some I have been missing too.



Like
LIKE 1

Reply
Sunny Mishra
Sunny Mishra
Senior Developer | Storyteller

Following
More from Sunny Mishra

Why traditional learning methods fail for Millennials and how you can fix it
Sunny Mishra on LinkedIn
Adi BhatStatus is online

Messaging You are on the messaging overlay. Press enter to open the list of conversations.

Compose message


You are on the messaging overlay. Press enter to open the list of conversations.
